what's up everyone colbycheeze here with
a video that will probably help very
many of you and dark souls 2 when
leveling up now it can actually be quite
obscure what these stats actually do for
you what the attributes do for you and
at which levels they actually fall off
some of them have higher bonuses
depending on which level you actually
are in that particular attribute so
let's just go through it real fast and I
don't want to make this video too long I
just want to give it packed full of
information that will help you to
understand those attributes let's start
off by talking about the vigor attribute
just going on the top and moving our way
down bigger is going to affect your
entire amount of HP you can actually
have a max possible HP of 2505 with all
of the right stats put together now the
way it works is for the first 20 points
you spend you're going to gain 30 HP
deeper points after that it until level
50 you get 20 and then after 50 you're
only gaining five so those are your soft
break points 20 is where i usually get
my vigor until the rest of my stats are
where they want them and then I'll move
them up as close to 50 as I can once I
start heading towards like level 150 now
the next thing that you're going to see
is endurance endurance is important as
it affects your entire stamina pool in
other words the green bar that affects
rolling the amount of attacks you can do
the amount of blocks that you can do
very important stat but essentially it's
break point as at level 20 or 20 points
spent because for each point up to that
you get two after that you only gain one
now the interesting thing about
endurance is that the lower of endurance
and adaptability will actually raise
your poise of around one to one ratio
somewhere in that so let's go ahead and
talk about adaptability for a moment
it's actually a very controversial stat
nom it does a little bit to a lot of
different things it gives you at higher
amount it will lower your flask drinking
time by around half a second it raises
your dodge timing which is very
important you can raise your shield
faster it some people say that it
actually makes you shoot your bow faster
that's a maybe and of course it
raises various resistances the main
thing to note is that the first ten
points you don't get very much of a
bonus from it after that you gain for
every ten points around seven to eight
more agility bonus and so it can be a
pretty big deal and I've noticed it is
quite useful in fact next up is vitality
which is going to affect your equipment
load this is what you need to spec into
if you want to wear heavy armor vitality
break point is after 30 so spin as much
as you want into it but after 30 you're
not going to be getting as much of a
benefit so that's where I would stop if
I were you now moving on into the next
one we're going to talk about a tune
mitt for a second so it Truman does a
couple things it actually raise your
casting speed but it also gives you more
slots for actually having spells to cast
so it basically goes like this you get
one at 10 another at 13 16 20 25 and
then 30 pretty much after 30 is when it
starts to slow down dramatically that's
it's real breaking point and so so
you're going to be spinning 10 per point
after 30 so soft cap at 20 another hard
cap at 30 and that's pretty much where
you want to stay now the next couple of
stats are actually pretty much all
lumped together here I'm going to talk
about strength dexterity intelligence
and faith all as one because they all
are very similar other than allowing you
to equip certain items by having the
required stat that is associated with it
strength for example will modify the
scaling on strength based weapons but it
also adds a little bit of defense to
your setup dexterity will add extra
damage to decks based scaling but it
also adds poison and bleed bonus
whenever you level of intelligence
you're going to increase your fire
damage as well as magic of course and
then and engineer faith will actually up
your lightning damage now the cool
interaction between faith and
intelligence is that the lower of the
two will actually modify your dark
damage so that's pretty much for hexes
and stuff like that one more thing to
note about when you're wildung weapons
if you to hand a sword it will actually
double your strength so you you actually
have less requirements as well as the
fact that this scaling is a little bit
more now dual wielding and if you want
to go into the power stance which is
where you actually have a special attack
with two weapons at once you actually
need one and a half times the required
amount of status so that's just a little
side note for you but as far as the the
fall off for damage on these stats it's
actually very interesting because they
they all have kind of a mediocre amount
of scaling up until 30 but between 30
and 40 you get the most massive bonus on
the damage scaling from these stats
after that you have a pretty big fall
off after 40 and it just kind of goes
steady up until the very last level at
99 so so the idea here is always take
your stat up to level up to 40 points
the staff that you're going to be using
for your character whether that's
strength banks deck space intelligence
our faith or whatever that may be take
that up to 40 because that is going to
be the level at which you see the most
and benefit but that's all for now thank
you guys hopefully you learned a lot
from watching this video and I'll see
you around for the next one make sure to
subscribe to see more I'm colbycheeze
peace out guys